#409 Path 3 - ActualUnit/Quantity for broader applications (#434)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/columns/actualquantity.md

# Actual Quantity

The Actual Quantity represents the volume of a given SKU associated with a [*resource*](#glossary:resource) or [*service*](#glossary:service) used or purchased, based on the [Actual Unit](#actualunit). Actual Quantity is often derived at a finer granularity or over a different time interval when compared to the [Pricing Quantity](#pricingquantity) (complementary to [Pricing Unit](#pricingunit)) and focuses on the actual amount of a *resource* or *service* used or purchased, not pricing and cost.

When [ChargeCategory](#chargecategory) is "Purchase":

>     The value represents a measurement that represents the volume of units purchased of a [*resource*](#glossary:resource) or [*service*](#glossary:service) and should be relevant to any associated [ChargeCategory](#chargecategory) "Usage" records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The value represents the volume of units purchased of a [*resource*](#glossary:resource) or [*service*](#glossary:service) which may be different from the quantity represented in the [PricingQuantity](#pricingquantity) column or measured in a different unit to that of [PricingUnit](#pricingunit). It should be relevant to any associated  [ChargeCategory](#chargecategory) "Usage" records.
```

When [ChargeCategory](#chargecategory) is "Usage":

>     The measurement represents the actual quantity consumed which may be a different value to the quantity that is charged represented in the [PricingQuantity](#pricingquantity) column or measured in a different unit to that of [pricingunit](#pricingunit).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The value represents the actual quantity consumed which may be a different value to the quantity that is charged represented in the [PricingQuantity](#pricingquantity) column or measured in a different unit to that of [pricingunit](#pricingunit).
```

> 

Author: TODO: Need to add details on how to handle aggregation across the column

Reviewer 2: I like the descriptions for ChargeCategories

> ActualQuantity column MUST be present in the billing data when the provider supports the measurement of usage or purchases. This column MUST be of type Decimal and MUST conform to [Numeric Format](#numericformat) requirements. The value MAY be negative in cases where [ChargeClass](#chargeclass) is "Correction". This column MUST NOT be null when [ChargeClass](#chargeclass) is "Standard" and [ChargeCategory](#chargecategory) is "Usage" or "Purchase", MUST be null when ChargeCategory is "Tax", and MAY be null for all other combinations of ChargeClass and ChargeCategory.

Author: Need to re-word the following: `ActualQuantity column MUST be present in the billing data when the provider supports the measurement of usage or purchases.` 

Current thinking is `when the provider supports charges where ActualQuantity does not match the PricingQuantity` - thoughts?

Author: What about just making these columns a straight MUST?

Reviewer 3: Agree with straight MUST.
